---
layout: docs
title: Welcome
next_section: installation
---

This site aims to be a comprehensive guide to Jekyll. We’ll cover everything from getting your site up and running, creating and managing your content, customizing the way your site works and looks, deploying to various environments, as well as some advice on participating in the future development of Jekyll itself.

## So what is Jekyll, exactly?

Jekyll is a simple, blog-aware, static site generator. It takes a template directory containing raw text files in various formats, runs it through [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) (or [Textile](http://textile.sitemonks.com/)) and [Liquid](http://liquidmarkup.org/) converters, and spits out a complete, ready-to-publish static website suitable for serving with your favorite web server. Jekyll also happens to be the engine behind [GitHub Pages](http://pages.github.com), which means you can use Jekyll to host your project’s page, blog, or website from GitHub’s servers **for free**.

## Quick-start guide

For the impatient, here's how to get Jekyll up and running.

{% highlight bash %}
~ $ gem install jekyll
~ $ mkdir -p my/new/site
~ $ cd my/new/site
~ $ vim index.html
~/my/new/site $ jekyll serve
# => Now browse to http://localhost:4000
{% endhighlight %}

That's nothing though. The real magic happens when you start creating posts, using the front-matter to conrol templates and layouts, and taking advantage of all the awesome configuration options Jekyll makes available.

## ProTips™, Notes, and Warnings

Throughout this guide there are a number of small-but-handy pieces of information that can make using Jekyll easier, more interesting, and less hazardous. Here’s what to look out for.

<div class="note">
  <h5>ProTips™ help you get more from Jekyll</h5>
  <p>These are tips and tricks that will help you be a Jekyll wizard!</p>
</div>

<div class="note info">
  <h5>Notes are handy pieces of information</h5>
  <p>These are for the extra tidbits sometimes necessary to understand Jekyll.</p>
</div>

<div class="note warning">
  <h5>Warnings help you not blow things up</h5>
  <p>Be aware of these messages if you wish to avoid certain death.</p>
</div>

If you come across anything along the way that we haven’t covered, or if you know of a tip yourself you think others would find handy, please [file an issue](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/issues/new) and we’ll see about including it in this guide.
