site/docs/templates.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Templates
prev_section: migrations
next_section: permalinks
permalink: /docs/templates/
---

Jekyll uses the [Liquid](http://wiki.shopify.com/Liquid) templating language to
process templates. All of the standard Liquid [tags](http://wiki.shopify.com/Logic) and
[filters](http://wiki.shopify.com/Filters) are
supported. Jekyll even adds a few handy filters and tags of its own to make
common tasks easier.

## Filters

<div class="mobile-side-scroller">
<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th><span class="filter">Filter</span> and <span class="output">Output</span></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Date to XML Schema</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a Date into XML Schema (ISO 8601) format.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.time | date_to_xmlschema }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>2008-11-07T13:07:54-08:00</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Date to RFC-822 Format</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a Date into the RFC-822 format used for RSS feeds.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.time | date_to_rfc822 }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>Mon, 07 Nov 2008 13:07:54 -0800</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Date to String</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a date to short format.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.time | date_to_string }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>07 Nov 2008</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Date to Long String</strong></p>
        <p>Format a date to long format.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.time | date_to_long_string }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>07 November 2008</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>XML Escape</strong></p>
        <p>Escape some text for use in XML.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.content | xml_escape }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>CGI Escape</strong></p>
        <p>
          CGI escape a string for use in a URL. Replaces any special characters
          with appropriate %XX replacements.
        </p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ “foo,bar;baz?” | cgi_escape }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>foo%2Cbar%3Bbaz%3F</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>URI Escape</strong></p>
        <p>
          URI escape a string.
        </p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ “'foo, bar \\baz?'” | uri_escape }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>foo,%20bar%20%5Cbaz?</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Number of Words</strong></p>
        <p>Count the number of words in some text.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.content | number_of_words }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>1337</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Array to Sentence</strong></p>
        <p>Convert an array into a sentence. Useful for listing tags.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.tags | array_to_sentence_string }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>foo, bar, and baz</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Textilize</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a Textile-formatted string into HTML, formatted via RedCloth</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt | textilize }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Markdownify</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a Markdown-formatted string into HTML.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt | markdownify }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Data To JSON</strong></p>
        <p>Convert Hash or Array to JSON.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.data.projects | jsonify }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Tags

### Includes

If you have small page fragments that you wish to include in multiple places on
your site, you can use the `include` tag.

{% highlight ruby %}
{% raw %}{% include footer.html %}{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Jekyll expects all include files to be placed in an `_includes` directory at the
root of your source directory. This will embed the contents of
`<source>/_includes/footer.html` into the calling file.

<div class="note">
  <h5>ProTip™: Use variables as file name</h5>
  <p>

    The name of the file you wish to embed can be literal (as in the example above),
    or you can use a variable, using liquid-like variable syntax as in
    <code>{% raw %}{% include {{my_variable}} %}{% endraw %}</code>.

    Note that unlike usual liquid variable syntax, you cannot have spaces inside the curly braces.

  </p>
</div>

You can also pass parameters to an include:

{% highlight ruby %}
{% raw %}{% include footer.html param="value" %}{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

These parameters are available via Liquid in the include:

{% highlight ruby %}
{% raw %}{{ include.param }}{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

### Code snippet highlighting

Jekyll has built in support for syntax highlighting of [over 100
languages](http://pygments.org/languages/) thanks to
[Pygments](http://pygments.org/). To use Pygments, you must have Python installed on your
system and set `pygments` to `true` in your site's configuration file.

To render a code block with syntax highlighting, surround your code as follows:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% highlight ruby %}
def foo
  puts 'foo'
end
{% endhighlight %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

The argument to the `highlight` tag (`ruby` in the example above) is the
language identifier. To find the appropriate identifier to use for the language
you want to highlight, look for the “short name” on the [Lexers
page](http://pygments.org/docs/lexers/).

#### Line numbers

There is a second argument to `highlight` called `linenos` that is optional.
Including the `linenos` argument will force the highlighted code to include line
numbers. For instance, the following code block would include line numbers next
to each line:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def foo
  puts 'foo'
end
{% endhighlight %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

#### Stylesheets for syntax highlighting

In order for the highlighting to show up, you’ll need to include a highlighting
stylesheet. For an example stylesheet you can look at
[syntax.css](http://github.com/mojombo/tpw/tree/master/css/syntax.css). These
are the same styles as used by GitHub and you are free to use them for your own
site. If you use `linenos`, you might want to include an additional CSS class
definition for the `.lineno` class in `syntax.css` to distinguish the line
numbers from the highlighted code.

### Post URL

If you would like to include a link to a post on your site, the `post_url` tag
will generate the correct permalink URL for the post you specify.

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% post_url 2010-07-21-name-of-post %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

If you organize your posts in subdirectories, you need to include subdirectory 
path to the post:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% post_url /subdir/2010-07-21-name-of-post %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

There is no need to include the file extension when using the `post_url` tag.

You can also use this tag to create a link to a post in Markdown as follows:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
[Name of Link]({% post_url 2010-07-21-name-of-post %})
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

### Gist

Use the `gist` tag to easily embed a GitHub Gist onto your site:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% gist 5555251 %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

You may also optionally specify the filename in the gist to display:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% gist 5555251 result.md %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

The `gist` tag also works with private gists, which require the gist owner's
github username:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% gist parkr/931c1c8d465a04042403 %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

The private gist syntax also supports filenames.

Commit message:

Add support for the Rouge syntax highlighter
By setting the `highlighter` setting to `rouge` you can now easily
highlight your code with it instead of relying on Pygments. However,
Jekyll doesn't depend on Rouge explicitly, you will need to install it
or add it to your Gemfile.

The documentation has been updated accordingly.

site/docs/templates.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Templates
prev_section: migrations
next_section: permalinks
permalink: /docs/templates/
---

Jekyll uses the [Liquid](http://wiki.shopify.com/Liquid) templating language to
process templates. All of the standard Liquid [tags](http://wiki.shopify.com/Logic) and
[filters](http://wiki.shopify.com/Filters) are
supported. Jekyll even adds a few handy filters and tags of its own to make
common tasks easier.

## Filters

<div class="mobile-side-scroller">
<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th><span class="filter">Filter</span> and <span class="output">Output</span></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Date to XML Schema</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a Date into XML Schema (ISO 8601) format.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.time | date_to_xmlschema }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>2008-11-07T13:07:54-08:00</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Date to RFC-822 Format</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a Date into the RFC-822 format used for RSS feeds.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.time | date_to_rfc822 }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>Mon, 07 Nov 2008 13:07:54 -0800</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Date to String</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a date to short format.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.time | date_to_string }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>07 Nov 2008</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Date to Long String</strong></p>
        <p>Format a date to long format.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.time | date_to_long_string }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>07 November 2008</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>XML Escape</strong></p>
        <p>Escape some text for use in XML.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.content | xml_escape }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>CGI Escape</strong></p>
        <p>
          CGI escape a string for use in a URL. Replaces any special characters
          with appropriate %XX replacements.
        </p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ “foo,bar;baz?” | cgi_escape }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>foo%2Cbar%3Bbaz%3F</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>URI Escape</strong></p>
        <p>
          URI escape a string.
        </p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ “'foo, bar \\baz?'” | uri_escape }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>foo,%20bar%20%5Cbaz?</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Number of Words</strong></p>
        <p>Count the number of words in some text.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.content | number_of_words }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>1337</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Array to Sentence</strong></p>
        <p>Convert an array into a sentence. Useful for listing tags.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.tags | array_to_sentence_string }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
        <p>
          <code class='output'>foo, bar, and baz</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Textilize</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a Textile-formatted string into HTML, formatted via RedCloth</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt | textilize }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Markdownify</strong></p>
        <p>Convert a Markdown-formatted string into HTML.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ page.excerpt | markdownify }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <p class='name'><strong>Data To JSON</strong></p>
        <p>Convert Hash or Array to JSON.</p>
      </td>
      <td class='align-center'>
        <p>
         <code class='filter'>{% raw %}{{ site.data.projects | jsonify }}{% endraw %}</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Tags

### Includes

If you have small page fragments that you wish to include in multiple places on
your site, you can use the `include` tag.

{% highlight ruby %}
{% raw %}{% include footer.html %}{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Jekyll expects all include files to be placed in an `_includes` directory at the
root of your source directory. This will embed the contents of
`<source>/_includes/footer.html` into the calling file.

<div class="note">
  <h5>ProTip™: Use variables as file name</h5>
  <p>

    The name of the file you wish to embed can be literal (as in the example above),
    or you can use a variable, using liquid-like variable syntax as in
    <code>{% raw %}{% include {{my_variable}} %}{% endraw %}</code>.

    Note that unlike usual liquid variable syntax, you cannot have spaces inside the curly braces.

  </p>
</div>

You can also pass parameters to an include:

{% highlight ruby %}
{% raw %}{% include footer.html param="value" %}{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

These parameters are available via Liquid in the include:

{% highlight ruby %}
{% raw %}{{ include.param }}{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

### Code snippet highlighting

Jekyll has built in support for syntax highlighting of [over 100
languages](http://pygments.org/languages/) thanks to
[Pygments](http://pygments.org/). To use Pygments, you must have Python installed
on your system and set `highlighter` to `pygments` in your site's configuration
file.

Alternatively, you can use [Rouge](https://github.com/jayferd/rouge) to highlight
your code snippets. It doesn't support as many languages as Pygments does but
it should fit in most cases and it's written in pure Ruby ; you don't need Python
on your system!

To render a code block with syntax highlighting, surround your code as follows:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% highlight ruby %}
def foo
  puts 'foo'
end
{% endhighlight %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

The argument to the `highlight` tag (`ruby` in the example above) is the
language identifier. To find the appropriate identifier to use for the language
you want to highlight, look for the “short name” on the [Pygments' Lexers
page](http://pygments.org/docs/lexers/) or the [Rouge
wiki](https://github.com/jayferd/rouge/wiki/List-of-supported-languages-and-lexers).

#### Line numbers

There is a second argument to `highlight` called `linenos` that is optional.
Including the `linenos` argument will force the highlighted code to include line
numbers. For instance, the following code block would include line numbers next
to each line:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def foo
  puts 'foo'
end
{% endhighlight %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

#### Stylesheets for syntax highlighting

In order for the highlighting to show up, you’ll need to include a highlighting
stylesheet. For an example stylesheet you can look at
[syntax.css](http://github.com/mojombo/tpw/tree/master/css/syntax.css). These
are the same styles as used by GitHub and you are free to use them for your own
site. If you use `linenos`, you might want to include an additional CSS class
definition for the `.lineno` class in `syntax.css` to distinguish the line
numbers from the highlighted code.

### Post URL

If you would like to include a link to a post on your site, the `post_url` tag
will generate the correct permalink URL for the post you specify.

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% post_url 2010-07-21-name-of-post %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

If you organize your posts in subdirectories, you need to include subdirectory
path to the post:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% post_url /subdir/2010-07-21-name-of-post %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

There is no need to include the file extension when using the `post_url` tag.

You can also use this tag to create a link to a post in Markdown as follows:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
[Name of Link]({% post_url 2010-07-21-name-of-post %})
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

### Gist

Use the `gist` tag to easily embed a GitHub Gist onto your site:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% gist 5555251 %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

You may also optionally specify the filename in the gist to display:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% gist 5555251 result.md %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

The `gist` tag also works with private gists, which require the gist owner's
github username:

{% highlight text %}
{% raw %}
{% gist parkr/931c1c8d465a04042403 %}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

The private gist syntax also supports filenames.
